---
layout: green
title: The Carbon Inkjet
category: alchemy
---

h2. Sufferable Inkjet Art Prints

Modern inkjet printing allows us to make some pretty awesome prints right at home, the trouble is these inks are not exactly longterm and if they are cost a lot of money.  I've always been kinda leary of the inkjet print, watched it from the sidelines and enjoyed the results.  There is just something too factory like to it for me, it never seemed right to want to sell fascimiles of art work.  Now a print is different, a real print, made by some process, everyone has a uniqueness to it.  It's real materials, or maybe it's not.  Somewhere inbetween all these distinctions get mixed up and lost but the end result is that it wasn't for me.  Not for me at all.  

Alas, never say never, as I know own an inkjet printer and am making inkjet prints.  But these ain't your grandma's inkjets. And they ain't no fascimilles either.  Enter, stage left, the carbon print. 

Carbon is good stuff.  Carbon ink is just soot with a binder.  It's as old as the Egyptians and still as permanant too.  See this is the key, Carbon Ink doesn't fade.  You could leave it in the sun for a thousand years and it'd still look perfect.  Aditionally it doesn't harm the paper, no acid here.  Carbon ink, then, wise old uncle of the dyes commonly used in the inkjet printer.  

The fine geeks of the Black and White printing world have created a wonderful new tool for printing black and white prints.  These are the people whom spent way too many hours in the darkroom and now miss the spell of chemicals and the magic of the Black and White Print.  Not to mention the quality and stableness of it.  So they put their heads together and with some great chemistry and computer wizardry came up with an inksystem to print carbon ink with the inkjet printer.  

Awesome me thinks.  

So this is what I do.  I print out pictures onto watercolor paper - arches or fabriano, the hot press varieties.  These pictures are my own art.  I do some digital stuff to it, crop, fold, wash rinse repeat.  Then print them out in black and white.  That gives me a foundation, a drawing if you will or a point of departure.  That is the print portion. 

On top of this the sky is the limit.  Sometimes very little is done, sometimes a new world comes about and you can't even recognize the old one.  Just start working working working.  


