---
layout: green
title: Alchemy 
---

h2.  The Alchemest and the Artist

I loved doing science experiments as a kid.  Explosions were definatley the best but the boreing stuff was great too.  It's no surpise that I've geeked out pretty hardcore about painting matials.  But there is just something about it, something so perfect about painting.  It's like alchemy. 

Color, of coarse is the center of the universe here.  Everything else is just the supporting cast while color takes the lead night after night.  Jealousy abounds out there and if you start down this slippery sloap you'll find the longest debats logged in the recesses of the internet about secret mediums, siccative juices, fossilized resins and magic solvents which will make your painting sing.  All this is the critics belittling the brilliance of the play: Pigment. 

Next time you find yourself in a well stocked museum take a moment to examine a work of the old masters, any of them, doesnt really matter. Look at the color.  Look how it pops.  They did this with 7 or so pigments.  Amazing.  Now go take a peak at most anything of the last 100 years.  Notice the difference. 

My theory:  bad oil.  So oil does matter, i mean it is half of the makeup of paint.  But great oil is simple to make and good oil can be had for a price.  The crazy meduims are just snake oil.  

The point i'm making here is that pigments, colors are amazing and knowing how to handle them is key.  So key that it's a shame more people do not spend the time to figure it out.  Alas this shall be our mission, to learn about the pigments, figure out their traights, the strenghts and bad habbits.

Pay close attention here, we are worried only about pigments.  Not about colors.  Manufactures of paint sell you colors, mixtures of pigments and this is just retarded.

To start, my favorite:  Cadmium Orange. 
